# python_capstone
My proposal for a global climate change system (The Earth Save System, or TESS) was nominated for the Earthshot Prize in 2021. This Python capstone project has been designed to include the basic functionality of the TESS system at the various stakeholder levels outlined. The home and community apps are accessible to patrons of participating libraries with internet access in communities around the world. Community, state or region, national, and global apps display daily air quality and CO2 emission counts in addition to climate change news important to all stakeholders. Administrative functions are included for leaders and policy makers including instant calling,  messaging and conferencing. Links to a multitude of local, state, national and worldwide governmental, scientific, sustainable and climate-related databases, systems and resources are also included at each stakeholder level (links included are suggestions for further development and not a comprehensive list).

The community app is customizable by community coordinators. Boards and board posts can be added or deleted. The community coordinator loads and maintains resource link databases for community and home apps with links that are requested or useful in their communities. All users are verified and added by the community library, and community coordinators also update community news and post eco-friendly library events. State/region, national and global apps are customizable by their coordinators. Coordinators load and maintain resource link databases with links that are requested, utilized or essential to inform and/or facilitate communication, research, programs, initiatives and emergency responses. Coordinators also oversee/update daily climate change news, including initiatives and events.

The prototype for this capstone project will be written using Python, Jinja2, Flask-SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL. The system proposal, design and prototype are available to use in whole or in part. The TESS system is designed to connect people with sustainable organizations and systems from local communities to the global village. Daily climate change news and real time CO2 emmission counts/air quality indexes allow everyone in our global village to stay informed, coordinate efforts and track progress so that we can all move the needle together!
